============================
Virtual 3D gallery for Plone
============================

`hexagonit.virtualgallery` is a Plone add-on that renders a Flash-based 3D virtual gallery.

* `Source code @ GitHub <http://github.com/hexagonit/hexagonit.virtualgallery>`_
* `Releases @ PyPI <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/hexagonit.virtualgallery>`_
* `Sphinx docs @ ReadTheDocs <http://readthedocs.org/docs/hexagonitvirtualgallery>`_

Installation
============

To install ``hexagonit.virtualgallery`` you simply add
``hexagonit.virtualgallery`` to the list of eggs in your buildout, run
buildout and restart Plone. Then, install `hexagonit.virtualgallery` using the
Add-ons control panel.

Requirements
============

    * `Plone <http://plone.org/>`_ 4.1 or newer
    * `Flash player <http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/>`_ 10.2 or newer

Basic usage
===========

This package adds the `Virtual 3D gallery` display mode to Folder and
Collection. So, go to any folder or collection that contains images and select
``Virtual 3D gallery`` from the display drop-down menu.

In the gallery each room has enough space for 17 images. If the image source
(Folder or Collection) contains more images then additional rooms will be
automatically created and doors allow the user to travel between the rooms.

The gallery can be navigated either by using the mouse or the keyboard. Use
the arrow keys to move within the space (hold down shift to strafe). Clicking
an image with the mouse will concentrate on that image and the image metadata
will become visible when hovering over the image.

You can view each image in turn by clicking on the arrow buttons on the left
and right side of the viewer. The viewer can also be put in fullscreen mode
by clicking on the fullscreen button on the top right corner.

.. image:: https://github.com/hexagonit/hexagonit.virtualgallery/raw/master/hexagonit/virtualgallery/docs/images/screenshot.png

Configuration
=============

Each gallery may be configured to use a particular image scale (provided by
`plone.app.imaging <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/plone.app.imaging>`_) by
choosing the appropriate scale on the ``Virtual gallery settings`` page. A
link to the settings page will become visible when the context is using the
virtual gallery display.

By default the gallery uses the original scale of the images but in case of
large images this may slow down the gallery significantly. Using a smaller
scale version of the images usually improves the loading time and performance.

You can also configure new image scales in ``Site setup â€º Image handling``.
For example, you could define a "HD" scale at 1200x1200 pixels which would
give most current day users a good quality image even in the fullscreen mode.

Advanced usage
==============

The Flash viewer is independent of Plone and may be used in any web context,
even another framework or a language environment. The viewer requires two
distinct parts to work:

    * The HTML code to embed the viewer and pass parameters
    * JSON configuration which configures the viewer.

Embed code
----------

The HTML code needs to embed the ``Virtual3DGallery.swf`` viewer and pass a
single `flashvars <http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/164/tn_16417.html>`_ variable
called ``dataURL`` to the viewer. This variable must contain the URL to the
JSON configuration file which configures the viewer.

If you are embedding the viewer within a page that contains other content it
is also recommended set the ``wmode=window`` flash parameter so that HTML
elements can be positioned above the flash content.

By default, this package uses the `SWFObject
<http://code.google.com/p/swfobject/>`_ Javascript library to do the
embedding.

JSON configuration
------------------

The Flash viewer is driven by the JSON configuration which contains the list
of images to display in the gallery, associated image metadata (title, author,
description) and translations for the UI textual elements, e.g.::

    {"images": [
        {"url": "http://my.server.com/images/image1.png",
         "title": "Nice scenery",
         "description": "Lorem lipsum..",
         "author": "dokai"},
        {"url": "http://my.server.com/images/image2.png",
         "title": "Screenshot of Foo",
         "description": "Lorem lipsum..",
         "author": "dokai"}
        ],
     "ui": {
        "enterRoomToolTip": "Click to enter",
        "fullscreen": "Fullscreen",
        "loadingImg": "Loading image:",
        "enterRoom": "Entering room [x] of [y]",
        "anaglyph": "Anaglyph"
     },
     "settings": {
        "anaglyphModeEnabled": "false"
     }}

The viewer does not care where the images and associated metadata come from so
you can implement any custom logic that puts together the list (custom catalog
queries, structural hierarchies, etc) as long as the resulting JSON document
is valid.

The package contains an associated `JSON schema <http://tools.ietf.org/html
/draft-zyp-json-schema-03>`_ document which can be used to validate the JSON
configuration, e.g.::

    from hexagonit.virtualgallery.schema import GALLERY_DATA_SCHEMA
    from validictory import validate
    import json

    try:
        # Assuming the `my_custom_config` contains the Python
        # data structure with the image information.
        validate(my_custom_config, GALLERY_DATA_SCHEMA)
        json_config = json.dumps(my_custom_config)
    except ValueError:
        # Validation failed, do something.
        pass


You might want to display the gallery somewhere else or possibly in a
toolbarless new window. To keep all Plone stuff away from the virtual gallery
use a URL like below to only get the title of the gallery and the Flash object
that displays it::

    http://<path>/<to>/<your>/<gallery>/<folder>/virtualgallery?ajax_load=1&ajax_include_head=1


